---
layout: post
title: "Bias"
---

# April 17, 2021

- What did I learn this week? 
- What do I want to internalize? 
- What will I do differently?

## prioritization, backlog
> - things have different classes of priority
> - but that doesn't mean we should discard everything but the top
> - but that doesn't mean we should lump everything else together into a homogenous "backlog"
> - but it does mean you should be afraid of prioritizing things that are missing information that might dominate other priorities 
> - ambiguity is due to a lack of clarity about the prioritization model
> 
> Sources: 
> - PRJ19 backlog grooming session
> - FT with Arvind: COVID triage committee (a variation of the trolley problem, which requires choices over a set of incrementally more and conflicting information); Would you prefer less or more data?
> - Your Brain at Work

Consider the PM who must triage a number of feature requests, and determine what to do with them. Should we do this now, or maybe later, or maybe never? We call this prioritization, or backlog grooming. 

One way is to binary classify.

But despite the simplicity, binary classification can be inefficient. At first, it seems like an O(N) approach, but if we don't pick exactly the right number of elements, we need some way of incrementally adding or removing. We could do binary classification again, but we'd likely need to do it several more times (like a weird binary search).

One way is to list sort.

Now imagine there's 100x as many.

List sort allows people to get away with an ambiguous or coarse mental model, because brains have the ability to compare two things. But prioritization is a really energy intensive process. Rules allow us to optimize this process, like a database index speeds up search queries. 

Now imagine there's imperfect information. Some ideas are missing some inputs for your rules. For example, we don't know if potential customers care, but we know that existing customers care. Should we prioritize based on what we know? If we do, then we're basing our prioritization on a dominated rule, like choosing your car based on color, without knowing the type or model.

If you were to train someone to triage for you, how would you teach them? You'd probably explain what matters ("we're targeting the big tech space") and short-term KPIs (our goal is to increase MAU to XX). You might create a mental model to guide prioritization ("Will this feature improve big tech MAU, either by helping acquire new customers, or reducing churn of existing customers?"). Over time, you might add more nuance to these rules ("quick wins are better, and existing customers are more important than new customers").

#### From now on
> - Articulate priority model *before* prioritizing ideas.
> - 80% of the time should be spent tuning the priority model. Actually applying the model should be obvious.
> - Use list sort to learn the features of the mental model, but create a rule based system in order to scale

## anti-racism
> - Racism is rooted in self-interest, not ignorance.
> - Racism is a cancer of policy, and treating the symptoms will not remove the source.
>
> Source: How to be an Anti-Racist
#### From now on
> - Prioritize policy change over education over awareness
> - Seek out, observe, be curious of the racist ideas that I hold
> - Consider how I've never taken an action to affect policy change. Resolve the cognitive dissonance

## generosity
> - pizza

#### From now on
> - Poverty is not a crime. Homelessness is not a crime. Even if it was, a person's history of crime is not a qualification against the value of their human life. Like accessibility, financial conditions are a function of both one's environment and one's actions, and are not necessarily permanent. Like accessibility, being poor is a state of being, not an identity or a qualification against the value of their human life.  
> - People who need help often have higher priorities than avoiding shame. Social expectations of politeness are hurtful, and I should discard them when necessary. This is not to say people who are in need don't have the ability to be polite - rather, they shouldn't, and so it's wrong for me to expect it of them either.
> - If I'm being generous, I might as well go all the way. Generosity is for the benefit of others, not to resolve social awkwardness or feel good about myself. If I were to half-ass it, I would be proving to myself that I started it for selfish reasons, rather than charitable reasons.
## Ideas that tickle
> -  glass screen protectors use friction - not adhesive - to "stick" to phone screens
> - the art and science of cold reading (arvind) 
> - on-demand/discovery oriented learning (eg googling + stack overflow) (areebah)
> - the science of transition, and of taking advantage of "falling tides" (arthur brookes)


# Notes
- I still need to work on writing volume over quality - noticing when I'm stuck. I should stop editing, no backspace allowed.
- Consider only picking one topic, and prioritizing/backlogging the rest.
