---
layout: post
title: "Two"
---
# April 10, 2021

- What did I learn this week? 
- What do I want to internalize? 
- What will I do differently?

## Networking
> - Most job offers come from weak ties / workplace connections, not close friends
> - To grow your network, connect to the super-connectors (80/20 rule)
> - Don't be coy - communicate the value prop

Super-connectors are the people who know everyone and everyone knows. Super-connectors can be the difference between having 10 weak ties and 1000.

If you think about it, people who are super-connectors are also the type to value making connections and more easily accept offers to connect. 

Event organizers are a great example of a super-connector. They could always use some extra help, and they're intimately connected to everything that's going on. By reaching out and offering help, you could easily end up with access to private events, inside information, and connections to a variety of people you'd otherwise never meet. 

That's exactly what happened when I attended MedHacks a couple years ago. As a hackathon organizer myself, I ended up socializing with the organizers that are otherwise background noise to the fast-paced event. In the end, I was invited to play games and eat in the organizers' headquarters, and I even found several hours for a 1:1 with the co-director - all during the busy event. While I regret not following up and maintaining these connections, it was a very memorable weekend, and I would be happy to share a meal with any of them today.

#### FROM NOW ON:
- Identify and follow up with the super-connectors
- When attending events, keep an eye out for the organizers and help out where I can
- When reaching out to weak ties, remember to include 1) who you both know, 2) what interests you about them, and 3) how you can help them. If you're missing any of the 3, it's suspicious

Sources:
- *never eat alone* by Keith Ferazzi
- [HBR: "A friend of a friend" is no longer the best way to find a job](https://hbr.org/2017/06/a-friend-of-a-friend-is-no-longer-the-best-way-to-find-a-job)
- Personal experience: reaching out to a weak tie, and receiving a "Why though?" in response
- Personal experience: MedHacks at John Hopkins

## Ideas that I ran out of time to elaborate on

### Anti-racism
> - don't trust my understanding without reading/experiencing the source material
> - identify and dismantle my instances of behavioral racism
> - look out for colorism and similar adoptions of oppressive mindsets within our own groups

Sources:
- *How to be an antiracist* by Ibram X. Kendi (chapters: body, culture, behavior, color)

### Happiness 
> - Primary negative emotions (fear, sadness, anger, disgust) occur as a result of an attachment
> - Negative feelings pass as quickly as positive ones (homeostasis)
> - Reducing unhappiness will not increase happiness
> - Love your whole life, not because you like the tragedies, but because it's also part of your life

Sources:
- "the art of happiness" podcast by Arthur C Brookes (ep 8)
- quote from Stephen Colbert, paraphrased by Arthur C Brookes

### Therapeutic communication
> - Cliches are attempts to avoid engaging emotionally
> -  Characterizing cancer as a fight can demean and isolate patients that feel hopeless
> - Emotional care is intertwined with physical care, not a distraction
> - Approval/disapproval/advice/favors frame behavior as appeasement, rather than as self-motivated
> - Jargon is not efficient if they don't understand it
> - Noncompliance is due to your failure in understanding them
> - If someone is communicating to me and I am overwhelmed by circumstance (eg cancer diagnosis), I should let them know immediately, rather than allow the illusion of communication. 

Sources: 
- *The art of communication in nursing and health care* by Theresa Raphael-Grimm (ch 5-8)
- Conversation about avoidance, not apologizing for things you don't understand 

## Ideas that tickled
- underwear taxonomy
- kidney exchange
  - the potential locked behind lack of communication, reminds me of 1) two friends drifting apart and not wanting to be the first one to reach out 2) two enemies both wanting to make amends but not wanting to be the first to reach out
CDC guidelines
- curiosity as the root of empathy
- resilience, as a default case in a switch statement (debugging, oncall readiness, mental health)
- quality of care can come down to time and patient/staff ratio - people don't do bad jobs on purpose
- the best friendships are useless (arthur c brookes)
